Hey guys welcome back to the course in this lecture.
We're going to talk about a very common kind of phenomenon you'll see on these freelancing platforms.
And that's the big and disappear.
So this is a question I get all the time.
Someone bid looks like a great bid even what they describe might be spot on or you might be interested
in their price range but then they disappear immediately.
Honestly what you have to understand is this is this is the case in a lot of projects in the vast majority
of projects I've ever run.
There have been at least one or two people who have done this.
This is why it's important that in any project you run the vetting process with multiple people don't
put all of your eggs in one basket.
If you do a project you get 18 bids and you only pick one person to actually go into in-depth process
of discussing the project and doing some vetting with them.
You're going to set yourself up for failure because a lot of times that person will disappear.
Now it doesn't happen with every single person you've met.
But when it does happen it makes it such that you just wasted a lot of time.
So make sure you do this with lots of different people.
In general the reason why this happens is one of two things.
One the person who bid on your project is also bidding on other projects and what probably happened
is they probably got selected for a different project and all of a sudden their entire free time is
now gone.
Freelancers in general will bid for 10 20 projects at a time.
Just knowing that it's not realistic that they take on more than one or two of them but they're not
going to win 90 percent of the projects.
This is just how most freelancers work and it's something you have to accept because they need to make
a living.
And so many people bidding on so many projects means it's it's kind of a roll of the dice whether or
not they get selected.
So that's the most likely scenario is that they disappear because another project sucked up their time.
The more polite freelancers will tell you that.
And if that's the case they'll tell you that.
Ask them for a referral.
Move on to the next candidate.
The other scenario of them disappearing is simply that they change their mind about your project.
This is less likely but it does happen.
So what will happen is you know they see the project description.
They bid once and start having a discussion with you.
They realize that they don't want to work with you or the project is different than what they thought.
If that's the case a lot of them just cut ties and disappear.
They don't explain that it's confusing you.
Explain what is confusing.
But you need to understand that's essentially what they're signaling towards you.
If this is happening to you repeatedly once or twice or three times in the same project you need to
stop and understand what exactly is making them disappear.
Is your project too confusing.
Are you presenting your project as smaller than it really is.
Are you presenting it as simpler than it really is and then once you start actually talking to people
they realize it's a lot more complex.
If that's the case you need to go back and assess what it is that you're misrepresenting about your
project.
Think of it as a good thing.
It's a signal to you that there is a mismatch between what you're saying about your project and what
the person who's actually going to build it kind of realizes about it.
Now if they'd realize later once you started the project you'd have a serious problem with the fact
that realizing upfront that's a good thing.
Follow the other lecture when we talk about rapid cycling posts and what you can do is you can slowly
modify over time adding more information as freelancers ask more questions that'll make it more realistic
upfront so that every time you post a new job posting it has more information.
It'll slow down your vetting process but also catch you kind of up to speed with what the real expectations
of your project should be.
So if it happens don't worry.
Happens all the time.
You just need to understand why it happened and understand it's never anything personal but it could
be something wrong with your project if that's the case then you need to take a hard look back at it
and you need to ask them for feedback.
All right.
So in the next lecture.